Update for 3.4 and refactor to simplify (#64)
red-hat-data-services/red-hat-ai-examples: examples/fine-tuning/lora/README.md

## Execution modes

LoRA/QLoRA supports two execution modes:

> - **Interactive Notebooks (Single Node Fine Tuning)**: training runs directly in a workbench on a single pod, demonstrated by `lora_sft-interactive-notebook.ipynb`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Interactive (Single Node Fine Tuning)**: training runs directly in a workbench on a single pod, demonstrated by `lora_sft-interactive-notebook.ipynb`.
```

> - **Training Jobs (Distributed Fine Tuning with Kubeflow Trainer)**: training runs as distributed jobs across multiple nodes/pods via Kubeflow Trainer, demonstrated by `lora_sft-distributed.ipynb`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Distributed (Multi Node Fine Tuning with Kubeflow Trainer)**: training runs as distributed jobs across multiple nodes/pods via Kubeflow Trainer, demonstrated by `lora_sft-distributed.ipynb`.
```

While workbench setup is similar for both, we highlight specific configuration differences below.

To learn more about these execution modes, see the [fine-tuning execution modes overview](../README.md#execution-modes).

## RHOAI compatibility

This example is compatible with RHOAI version 3.4. For a version compatible with RHOAI 3.3 see [this README](../rhoai-3.3/lora/README.md).

## Requirements

- An OpenShift cluster with OpenShift AI (RHOAI 3.4) installed:
  - The `dashboard` and `workbenches` components enabled
  - The `trainer` component should be enabled if running the distributed notebook.
- Sufficient worker nodes with NVIDIA GPUs (Ampere-based or newer recommended).
- (Distributed only) A dynamic storage provisioner supporting RWX PVC provisioning. Talk to your cluster administrator about RWX storage options.

## Hardware requirements

> For the workbench image, the example was run on `Training Jupyter Pytorch CUDA Python` and `Training Jupyter Pytorch CPU Python`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the workbench image, the example was run on `Training Jupyter PyTorch CUDA Python` and `Training Jupyter PyTorch CPU Python`.
```

> This is a single image serving both as training runtime and jupyter notebook and comes with pre-installed dependencies required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These images serve both as training runtime and jupyter notebook images and come with all required dependencies pre-installed
```

to seamlessly run fine-tuning jobs.

### Workbench Requirements (Interactive example)

| Image Type | Use Case | GPU | CPU | Memory | Notes |
|------------|----------|-----|-----|--------|-------|

> | Training Jupyter Pytorch CUDA Python | NVIDIA GPU training | 1× GPU | 4 cores | 32Gi | Recommended for faster training |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Training Jupyter PyTorch CUDA Python | NVIDIA GPU training | 1× GPU | 4 cores | 32Gi | Recommended for faster training |
```

> [!NOTE]
>

> > - **Interactive notebooks (single node fine tuning)** are recommended for smaller training jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - **Interactive (Single Node Fine Tuning)** is recommended for smaller training jobs.
```

> > - For larger training jobs, consider the **training jobs (distributed fine tuning with Kubeflow Trainer)** approach.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - For larger training jobs, consider the **Distributed (Multi Node Fine Tuning with Kubeflow Trainer)** approach.
```

### Training Job Requirements (Distributed example)

| Component | Configuration | GPU per node | Total GPU | GPU Type (per GPU) | CPU | Memory |
|-----------|--------------|---|---|------------|-----|--------|
| Training Pods | 2 nodes × 2 GPUs | 2 | 4 | NVIDIA L40/L40S or equivalent | 4 cores/pod | 32Gi/pod |

> [!NOTE]
>
> - This example was tested on 2 nodes × 2 GPUs provided by L40S however, it will work on smaller/larger configurations.
> - CPU and Memory requirements scale with batch size and model size. Above suit the example as it is.
> - Worker pods are configurable from the `client.create_job` call within the notebook.

### Workbench Requirements (Distributed example)

| Image Type | Use Case | GPU | CPU | Memory | Notes |
|------------|----------|-----|-----|--------|-------|
| Training Jupyter Pytorch CPU Python | CPU-based evaluation | None | 6 cores | 24Gi | Slower evaluation |

> | Training Jupyter Pytorch CUDA Python | NVIDIA GPU evaluation (Example Default) | 1× GPU | 2 cores | 8Gi | Recommended for faster testing |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Training Jupyter PyTorch CPU Python | CPU-based evaluation | None | 6 cores | 24Gi | Slower evaluation |
| Training Jupyter PyTorch CUDA Python | NVIDIA GPU evaluation (Example Default) | 1× GPU | 2 cores | 8Gi | Recommended for faster testing |
```

| Purpose | Size | Access Mode | Storage Class | Notes |
|---------|------|-------------|---------------|-------|
| Shared Storage (PVC) total | 50Gi (Example Default) | RWX | Dynamic provisioner required | Shared between workbench and training pods |

> [!NOTE]
>
> - Storage can be created in `Create Workbench` view on RHOAI Platform, however, dynamic RWX provisioner is required to be configured prior to creating shared file storage in RHOAI.
> - Shared storage is not required for the interactive example as dataset, model download and training all happen on the same pod.

## Setup

### Setup Workbench

**Step 1.** Access the OpenShift AI dashboard, for example from the top navigation bar menu:

![](../images/01.png)

**Step 2.** Log in, then go to **_Data Science Projects_** and create a project:

![](../images/02.png)

**Step 3.** Once the project is created, click on **_Create a workbench_**:

![](../images/03.png)

**Step 4.** Select the appropriate Workbench image based on interactive or distributed use case. See options above:

![](../images/04a.png)

**Step 5.** You may want to add a **Hardware Profile** for reuse within the Workbench settings:

![](../images/04b.png)

> **Step 6.** Select the Hardware profile just created:

Reviewer: I think the image here is the wrong one. Did we just create a hardware profile?

Author: section 5: You may want to add a Hardware Profile for reuse within the Workbench settings:
Shows that a new nvidia-gpu-profile has been added

I can refactor section 5 to something like " create hardware profile similar to the one below" ?

Reviewer: Alternatively you could update step 6 to `Select the Harware profile you want to use` ? That covers whether they use an existing one, or a newly created one?
